---
layout: post
title: Twan Wolthof
---

Hey, I'm 20 years old and currently an intern for [VideofyMe]. While I am currently located in Sweden, I am of dutch nationality. I study information technology at [Zuyd University].

## How did I get to be a programmer
I started scripting when I was 10 years old. At that time I discovered irc and figured out how to host game-servers. I played counter-strike 1.6 and loved the mod WC3FT, however I did not like the patch that came out shortly after that. Stubborn as I was I opened **notepad**, made my changes, tested it, and send a patch to the original author. During that time I was also highly active on quakenet, and made my own bots. It took a while before I found out what an editor/ide actually is. Eventually I used mEditor (for MSL), and the development tools that came with the amxmodx-sdk (SMALL-C derivate). Eventually I tried tcl because MSL was slow, required a GUI client as 'bot' and had very limited capabilities regarding networking and typing.

Well I did not like tcl at all. It was monstrously vague for me, so I learned some python and remade almost everything. Because I had no ideas what libraries were, I made it from scratch. I knew what code from others was but not that it was a library or anything, nor did I know anyone to give me code they created. Hence I implemented my own irc socketing and all was well, for some time. I started to implement game-server querying, but game-servers had a big delay before you'd get the results back. As unexperienced with threading, networking and everything related as I was, it's easy to say, my server just locked up eventually.

I was 12 and around this time I got a GNU C/C++ book. I loved it but it was difficult. I did not understand templating, nor arrays of pointer arrays. I grasped what pointers were, but I think I got blown away by all the ```*p**=q**+1``` flying around. Alas, I continued with SMALL-C and tried various other scripting languages.

----

At a young age I started playing clarinet, an E♭ because of my tiny fingers. When my front teeth fell out, I had to take a break. I started again and transitioned to a normal B♭ clarinet and joined Bocholtz Philharmonic youth orchestra. Shortly after I also joined the adult orchestra. Over the years I've won several trophies at soloists competitions. I eventually left the youth orchestra due to my age and continued in Bocholtz Philharmonic.

----

The love of programming I built up over the years led me to an easy choice of my study programme. I did not experience difficulties during my education, except for finding suitable courses to take because I followed an accelerated route.

[VideofyMe]: http://videofy.me
[Zuyd University]: http://zuyd.nl